# Project-2020

# General Description
The program describes the development of search and clustering algorithms of properly
patterned images in vector form.
The search was performed with the LSH algorithm based on the Manhattan metric (L1), as well as
the random projection algorithm in the hypercube for the same metric. Taking as 
input vector q and integers N and R, the program returns:

- The nearest neighbor to q,
- The N nearest neighbors to q and
- The vectors within radius R from q (range search).


For the clustering algorithm, the initialization k-means ++ was used. With the
initialization, the points of the dataset that are furthest away from each other are selected as centroids
, based on a probability distribution. In the update step
of the centroids, the k-medians technique was used. In the assignment step
used:

- The classic Lloyd’s algorithm,
- The reverse assignment with LSH, or Random view (depending on the parameters
of the program).

# Compilation instructions
The compilation of all executables ./cube ./lsh and ./cluster is done through a makefile file with
the $ make command
To produce a specific executable, the $ make command and its name are given. eg $ make cluster or $ make lsh or $ make cube
To clear all the files generated by the compilation, use the
command $ make clean 
# Instructions for use
Each executable can run with default parameters and file paths with
command ./lsh or ./cube or ./cluster
Along with the code files and the makefile, a configuration file for the cluster is given, and the 50 exact nearest file
neighbors that has already run on our machine (about 2.5 hours), for printingresults.
For the specific dataset, w is set to 40000.
If no output is given for the output then it is created by default and saves the
results.
